---
Title: Static site by using pelican
Date: 2025-03-28 15:39
Modified: 2025-03-28 15:39
Category: linux
Tags: blog, web
Slug: static-site-by-using-pelican
Authors: Alejandro Visiedo
Summary: Creating my blog by using pelican.
Header_Cover: static/header-cover.jpg
Status: draft
---
# Static site by using pelican

Hi there! this article is about the steps I did
to create this blog, so it could help to others
in creating their initial site.

- Preparing environment.
- Select a theme.
- Setting configuration.
- Checking the results.
- Publishing.

## Preparing environment

I am using a fedora linux box, and the requirements
in my environment where to install the below:

```sh
$ sudo dnf install -y python3-pelican python3-ghp-import make
```

- `python3-pelican` install the static site generator.
- `python3-ghp-import` allow to publish the site in github pages.
- `make` to launch common tasks generated by the initial assistent.

Now create a directory `my-blog` (set the name more appropiated):

```sh
$ mkdir my-blog
$ cd my-blog
```

Generate the initial layout:

```sh
$ pelican-quickstart
```

## Select a theme

You can browse several themes at: https://github.com/getpelican/pelican-themes

In my case I have used the `pelican-clean-blog` template; to install it I do:

```sh
$ mkdir templates
$ git submodule init
$ git submodule add https://github.com/gilsondev/pelican-clean-blog.git templates/pelican-clean-blog
```

## Setting the configuration

Open your `peliconconf.py` file and fill the information to customize your site.

I set `THEME = './templates/pelican-clean-blog'`. This theme has additional settings, see: https://github.com/gilsondev/pelican-clean-blog/tree/master?tab=readme-ov-file#basic-configuration

I had to create the `content/static` directory to copy there the head cover image.
Additionally I had to set `HEADER_COVER = 'static/header-cover.jpg'` (important to do
not add a `/` at the beginning). and set `STATIC_PATHS = ['static', 'images']` to allow
to publish `static` directory in the output.

The favicon could be generated from: https://favicon.io site; and setting `FAVICON = favicon.ico`
after copying the `favicon.ico` file generated to the repository base directory.

You can find more information about the general settings at: https://docs.getpelican.com/en/latest/settings.html
And for specific theme settings at: https://github.com/gilsondev/pelican-clean-blog/tree/master?tab=readme-ov-file#basic-configuration

## Checking the results

I like to run in a separate terminal `make devserver` and in a different terminal
do my stuffs; now navigate to http://localhost:8000 and you will see the results.

## Publishing

TODO

## Wrap up!

We have seen how to get started with pelican to create a static site generator
to create our contents, setup settings, and publishing.

Happy bloging!
